= swf_fu

With the swf_fu plugin, rails treats your swf files like any other asset (images, javascripts, etc...).

swf_fu (pronounced "swif-fu", bonus joke for french speakers) uses SWFObject 2.1 to embed swf objects in HTML and supports all its options.
SWFObject 2 is such a nice library that Adobe now uses it as the official way to embed swf!
SWFOBject's project can be found at http://code.google.com/p/swfobject

swf_fu was inspired by FlashObject by Davide D'Agostino (http://www.lipsiasoft.com)
and is and backward compatible with it (or can also be used together; see compatiblity notes at the end)

swf_fu has been tested with rails up to v2.2.2 and has good test coverage so <tt>rake test:plugins</tt> should reveal
any incompatibility. Comments and pull requests welcome: http://github.com/marcandre/swf_fu

== Install

  script/plugin install git://github.com/marcandre/swf_fu.git

If you are still rails 2.0.2 or older, this won't work; you'll need to download
swf_fu from http://github.com/marcandre/swf_fu and install it manually, like:

  script/plugin install ~/Downloads/swf_fu

== Usage

=== Embedding in HTML

To embed a swf file, use swf_tag:
  <%= swf_tag "i_like_flashing" %>

Exactly like images and javascripts, +swf_tag+ will use +swf_path+
to determine the path of the swf file; it will assume it is in <tt>/public/swfs/</tt>
unless specified otherwise and it will add the ".swf" extension automatically.

You can specify alternate content either with the options :alt => "Get Flash!" or you can use swf_tag as a block:

  <% swf_tag "i_like_flashing" do %>
    Get Flash
  <% end %>

=== Options

* <tt>:id</tt> - the DOM +id+ of the flash +object+ element that is used to contain the Flash object; defaults to the name of the swf in +source+
* <tt>:width, :height</tt> - the width & height of the Flash object. Defaults to "100%". These could also specified using :size
* <tt>:size</tt> - the size of the Flash object, in the form "400x300".
* <tt>:mode</tt> - Either :dynamic (default) or :static. Refer to SWFObject's doc[http://code.google.com/p/swfobject/wiki/documentation#Should_I_use_the_static_or_dynamic_publishing_method?]
* <tt>:flashvars</tt> - a Hash of variables that are passed to the swf. Can also be a string like <tt>"foo=bar&hello=world"</tt>. Defaults to <tt>{:id => the DOM id}</tt>
* <tt>:parameters</tt> - a Hash of configuration parameters for the swf. See Adobe's doc[http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=tn_12701#optional]
* <tt>:alt</tt> - HTML text that is displayed when the Flash player is not available. Defaults to a "Get Flash" image pointing to Adobe Flash's installation page. This can also be specified as a block (see embedding section)
* <tt>:flash_version</tt> - the version of the Flash player that is required (e.g. "7" (default) or "8.1.0")
* <tt>:auto_install</tt> - a swf file that will upgrade flash player if needed (defaults to "expressInstall" which was installed by swf_fu)
* <tt>:javascript_class</tt> - specify a javascript class (e.g. "MyFlash") for your flash object. If it exists, the initialize method will be called.
* <tt>:initialize</tt> - arguments to pass to the initialization method of your javascript class.
* <tt>:div_id</tt> - the DOM +id+ of the containing div itself. Defaults to <tt>"#{option[:id]}"_div</tt>

You can override these options with a global setting:

  ActionView::Base.swf_default_options = {:mode => :static}   # All swf_tag will use the static mode by default

=== Javascript

swf_fu will add 'swfobject' to the list of default javascript files. If you don't include
the default javascripts, a simple <tt>javascript_include "swfobject"</tt> is needed.

=== swf_path

+swf_tag+ implements and relies on +swf_path+ which behaves in a similar fashion to +image_path+, +javascript_path+, etc...:

  swf_path("example")                            => /swfs/example.swf
  swf_path("example.swf")                        => /swfs/example.swf
  swf_path("fonts/optima")                       => /swfs/fonts/optima.swf
  swf_path("/fonts/optima")                      => /fonts/optima.swf
  swf_path("http://www.example.com/game.swf")    => http://www.example.com/game.swf

It takes into account the global setting +asset_host+, like any other asset:

  ActionController::Base.asset_host = "http://assets.example.com"
  image_path("logo.jpg")                         => http://assets.example.com/images/logo.jpg
  swf_path("fonts/optima")                       => http://assets.example.com/swfs/fonts/optima.swf
  
== Compatibility with FlashObject

If you _don't_ currently use FlashObject, congrats, you're done reading!

If you _do_ use FlashObject, you can choose to:

1) keep both. They won't interfere and +flashobject_tag+ will continue to use the older SWFObject 1.5 library.

2) remove FlashObject:

  script/plugin remove flashobject_helper

You can also manually remove <tt>javascripts/flashobject.js</tt>

swf_fu will take over the +flashobject_tag+ and will use the new SWFObject 2.1 library.
This should not have impacts as long as:
* your swf path is absolute (e.g. "/path/to/my_flash.swf"). If it is relative, move your swf file from 'public/' to the new 'public/swfs/' asset folder
* you include the default javascripts (otherwise you need to include 'swfobject' explicitely and stop including 'flashobject')
* you don't use the javascript object before the page is loaded. SWFObject 2.1 makes the changes to the web page later
* you don't rely on the +verify_file_exists+ option (it doesn't do anything anymore)

In either case 1 or 2, you change existing calls to +flashobject_tag+ for +swf_tag+ at your leisure. 
The interface is similar and the main differences are some options name changes:
  :flash_id  => :id
  :variables => :flashvars
  :background_color => options[:parameters][:bgcolor]

Moreover, the following defaults are gone:
  :flashvars[:lzproxied]
  :parameters[:scale] 
  :parameters[:bgcolor]

Copyright (c) 2008 Marc-André Lafortune, released under the BSD license